So, if you're going the volume approach,
you know, I don't I don't think success
is in your future. I think the uh the
only real one is high intensity. And the
higher the intensity and the lower the
volume, the greater the stimulus. And
you know you're making progress because
you pretty much get stronger every
workout.
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective beyond what a lot
of the guys have to say who are sports
performance professionals on YouTube and
on social media giving their opinion. My
take is just a little bit different
because I have a different background.
Today I want to talk about one of the
most contested subjects in fitness which
is exercise volume. Meaning how many
sets of an exercise do you really need
to do? I've talked about science when it
comes to this. I've talked about some of
the biased science and some of what many
believe is fraudulent science when it
comes to the high volume recommendations
only because if you look at the volume
in some of these studies, you know, like
the 52 sets per week is what's required
for
whatever optimal muscle growth. Many
don't think that anyone ever did that
volume. They just wrote a paper about it
and made it up. Don't know if they made
it up. But today, let's hear from two
guys. Chris Bumstead and Dorian Yates.
Both Mr. Olympias. One of them is a
classic bodybuilding Mr. Olympia and the
other one is an open class Mr. Olympia.
Let's see what they have to say about
exercise volume. At a point in my career
when I was 21 and I started to get more
injuries. I was training like six, seven
days a week for like 3 hours. I was
like, I feel like I need to tone this
back. I started training 5 days a week
for 3 hours. And then I realized I had a
little bit more progress. I'm like,
okay, what if I train 3 days on, one day
off, but I'm only in the gym for like an
hour and a half. And I just noticed as I
was pulling away from volume, I actually
started to progress more and feel
better. If volume was the key factor in
stimulating muscle growth, wouldn't we
continually increase our amount of
exercise? Trust me, if that's what it
took to train 10 hours a day and eat dog
between sets, but is not what it takes.
It takes intense targeted training and
proper recovery. So, we hear from
both these guys. Uh they're both amazing
bodybuilders, both put on a ton of mass.
Part of what I think we need to keep in
mind is that
what we're being told is you need to do
a certain amount of work with a muscle
before you're exhausted it enough before
the stimulus happens and there's a
growth response. The idea is there's a
sliding scale. You can go high intensity
or with variable resistance like with
X3. That's super high intensity and you
can get all the stimulus done in a very
small period of time or you can expand
that period of time and you don't have
to work as hard but you have to do a lot
more sets. Also, one of the challenges
with that is that requires you to go to
what's called voluitional failure.
voluitional failure mean meaning is like
you just decide where to put the weight
down and that you're close to momentary
muscular failure which is complete
fatigue of the muscle. The problem is
voluitional failure is very difficult to
gauge and most people gauge it very
incorrectly. So if you're going the
volume approach you know I don't I don't
think success is in your future. I think
the uh the only real one is high
intensity and the higher the intensity
and the lower the volume, the greater
the stimulus. And you know you're making
progress because you pretty much get
stronger every workout. I hope this
helped. And uh if you want to tell me
I'm wrong in the comments, you can do
that. But if you want to tell me I'm
right, you can also do that. And that's
that's what I like. Thanks.